- [Instructor] Now let us understand what we are going to do
as a part of the custom serializers and deserializers
demonstration that we have.
Let's understand this thing.
So far, whenever we had a network of objects
we had the order, order details
address, customer, and product.
All of them tied together as references in each other.
Okay?
Now what we want to do is
we're going to create an inheritance hierarchy.
So the use case here is that there is a professor
and there's a software developer, okay?
Both of them want to meet for a conference.
So I am going to create an inheritance hierarchy.
The abstract class at the top will be a person class, okay?
And down there I'll have two other classes.
So I will have the software developer
and I'll have the professor.
So let's create that hierarchy first
and then we'll talk about it.
So I'm going to create a class called person
and I'm going to keep this as an abstract class, all right?
And let's come inside and define and few fields for it.
So I'll say private string name
and private
string
email.
Okay.
And what I'm also going to do is
let's generate the getter setters.
So on line 17, right-click, insert code
generate getter setter.
That's one.
Then also generate the constructors.
So line 17,
person.
Okay, we do not need really the two-string method
for this version because it's the abstract class
so we are good with this.
All right, let's create another class which is called
professor, so person is a professor
so that will be the inheritance hierarchy
that we are trying to implement.
So I'll say extends and extends person.
Okay.
And what are the fields that the professor class can have?
Let's understand that.
You can have
private
string
degree, the degree that this professor has, let's say.
And private string specialized course
that the professor has
attained.
Specialization in some course that he may have attained,
that is what is the next field.
Okay.
And then say right-click, insert code getter setter.
And let's also go ahead and generate the constructors.
So there's a compilation error that you see on this line
that is because we have generated
a bad image rise constructor in the person class.
Okay, so likewise we'll also generate
a bad image rise constructor in the professor class.
But, do not forget the golden rule.
When it comes to JSON binding,
you need the default constructor, don't you?
So let's go ahead and generate that, too.
And we will do that for both.
So you don't need this, really.
But remember the golden rule for JSON binding API,
you need the default constructor as well.
So let's go ahead in the person class,
let's generate it there first on line 21.
Okay, it's come back and generated
for the professor bean on line 20.
Okay.
So, there we are.
Now we'll create the other bean that we want.
The software developer.
Okay.
And this also is going to extend the person class.
And I'm going to say private
string let's say designation.
What is the exact designation of the software developer
because he may be a technical lead, he may be a team lead,
he may be an architect, it depends,
because all of these people are software developers.
So let's understand what their designation is.
And another thing is, let's also understand
the company for which he works,
so the company works for.
All right.
And then also the usual routine,
insert code for getter setters
and then the constructors right away coming up on line 17.
So we'll say
software developer this one and then
the default constructor as well.
Okay.
Let's come at the end and also generate
the two string presentation,
the method that we have to override.
Let's also go to professor, at the end
and on line 44, right-click, insert code
generate the two string.
Okay.
So the tests folder is the one where we are trying
to create the test serializers class
because we want to test out the default behavior
for this inheritance hierarchy
that JSON binding provides for us.
So now let's grab the main method.
Okay, and now we're going to create a list
of the person objects, okay?
So list of, and I'm going to specify generics syntax.
That's how it goes.
And let's say people equal to new array list
person again.
Okay, and now to this I'll add two people.
People dot add
new, one will be professor
okay, we have to make sure
that we instantiate the guy, okay?
They generally have a PhD degree, okay.
Specialize for, let's say this professor has been
specializing in digital computing.
Okay.
What name could we give?
Let's say Ross Geller.
He was a professor, right?
And then say Ross
at gmail
dot com.
Okay, so this is one person that I've added to the list.
Let's add the second person.
There will be no surprises when I add Chandler Bing's name
to this, so, new software developer
I'm going to name him Chandler Bing.
His designation is used to do data analysis
and statistical analysis and reconfiguration.
Okay, we'll call him data analyst.
Let's say he works for, I don't remember
what he used to work for, so let's say ABC Corporation.
And
let's give his name
Chandler Bing
it's obvious, right, that when Ross wants
to come to a conference, Chandler will accompany him.
Chandler at
okay, all right, so we have two people added.
What now we want to do is
let's go to the end, come right on line 25,
create an empty JSON-B instance,
okay?
Using the JSON
B builder
API dot create call.
Okay.
And what do we do next?
We are going to serialize this list.
That's the intent.
And if you want to see what is the default behavior
when you try to serialize this kind of list.
You have a list which completely has two different objects.
But they are a part of the same inheritance hierarchy.
So how does JSON-B handle this?
That's what we are trying to see.
Okay, so let's go ahead and say
sys out
all right, okay.
And
JSON-B
talk to JSON
and
there's only one parameter that we have to pass
which is people.
Okay.
Let's try to run this and see what happens.
Yeah, do you see what happened?
So I'm going to quickly take this into JSONLint,
better for viewing.
Copy this, validate, okay.
So this is what it give me.
Of course it is trying to give me a collection,
it's giving me a JSON array because it tried
to serialize a list.
But do you understand the problem here?
The problem is that when you try to deserialize this array
how will it understand which object
it is supposed to create?
Whether it has to create an instance of the professor
or an instance of the software developer.
And that is the problem here.
Okay?
Let's try the deserialization quickly in the code.
I'm going to take this line 28's call
and as usual, I'm going to put it in a string variable
result equal to this
and semi-colon, come on the next line
and say
so ut
JSON-B
dot
from JSON.
Pass that result
and the type.
What do you think is the type?
This is a list, so we know how generics list
can be deserialized, so I'm going to use
that same syntax.
Array list
of
person.
Okay.
And then the anonymous inner class
and on that, you say get class
and on that, you say get generic super class.
Okay, so this is not going to be printing for me
because that will be a little weird,
so what I'm gonna do is I'm just going to collect this
in a list of people again
and let me call this deserialized people now.
Naming convention should be right.
Okay, deserialized people.
Okay.
So I'm basically taking this entire thing
and putting it inside a list again.
So this is what I'm gonna do
and now I'm gonna just make sure that I sys out
this and check what happens.
Let's run this.
So we are serializing of course
and let's also print out the serialization result
on line 30.
I'm just gonna print that result out, okay?
And let's say result.
Okay.
Let's run this and see what happens.
Yeah, do you see what has happened?
It gave me the serialization result.
Of course, it gave me a collection
which is converted to a JSON array.
But now it doesn't understand what to do.
It doesn't understand whose instance to create,
whether it wants a constructor of the professor code
or the constructor of the software developer code.
Right?
So now how do you handle this deserialization process?
There are no annotations, there are no APIs
inside the JSON-B configure object
which help you to do this.
So now this is what we are going to achieve
using serializers and deserializers.
And we'll look at that demo in the next video.